#

* Virtual globes are known for their ability to render:
  - massive real-world terrain,
  - imagery,
  - vector datasets.---//TODO：what is vector datasets???

## 1.1 Rendering Challenges in Virtual Globes

The freedom of exploration and the ability to visualize incredible amounts of data give virtual globes their appeal. These factors also lead to a number of interesting and unique rendering challenge:

  - Precision // Part II
  - Accuracy 准确度: In addition to eliminating rendering artifacts caused by precision errors, virtual globes should also model Earth accurately.  Earth is actually about 21 km longer at the equator than at the poles.
  - Curvature 曲度:
  - Massive datasets: virtual globes rely on server-side data that are paged in based on view parameters using a technique called out-of-core rendering, which is discussed in the context of ter- rain in Chapter 12 and throughout Part IV.<u>(是不是可能不需要看，感觉没那么主要)</u>
  - Multithreading: an essential part of the 3D engine. virtual globe resources are loaded and processed in one or more separate threads, as discussed in Chapter 10. **(这个感觉很关键)**
  - Few simplifying assumption:


## 1.2 Contents Overview

The remaining chapters are divided into four parts:

  1. fundamentals:
     contains chapters on low-level virtual globe components and basic globe rendering algorithms.
     chapter 2,3,4
  2. precision:
     This part details the causes and solutions to these precision problems.
     chapter 5,6
  3. vector data,
      This part presents algorithms for rendering vector data and multithreading techniques to relieve the rendering thread of preparing vector data, or resources in general.
      chapter 7,8,9,10
  4. terrain:
      This final part starts with terrain fundamentals, then moves on to rendering real-world terrain datasets using level of detail (LOD) and out-of-core techniques.
      chapter 11,12,13,14

We’ve ordered the parts and chapters such that the book flows from start to finish.</br>
You don’t have to read the chapters in order though; we certainly didn’t write them in order.</br>
<font color='orange'>**Just ensure** you are familiar with the terms and high level-concepts in Chapters 2 and 3, then jump to the chapter that interests you most.</font></br>
The text contains cross-references so you know where to go for more information.</br>

## 1.3 OpenGlobe Architecture
  In fact, just as much effort went into the example code as went into the book you hold in your hands. As such, treat the examples as an essential part of your learning— take the time to run them and experiment.

  Scene: rendering algorithms using the Renderer;algorithms for globes(chp4),vectors data(chp7-9),terrain shading(chp11),geometry clipmapping(chp13)
  Renderer: (chp3)
  Core      : vectors, matrices, geographic positions, the Ellipsoid class(chp2) , geometric algorithms(tessellation algorithms presented in Chapters 4 and 8, and engine infrastructure, such as the message queue discussed in Appendix A.)
  System Libraries:

  // 硬件要求
  OpenGlobe requires a video card supporting OpenGL 3.3, or equivalently, Shader Model 4. These cards came out in 2006 and are now very reasonably priced. This includes the NVIDIA GeForce 8 series or later and ATI Radeon 2000 series or later GPUs. Make sure to upgrade to the most recent drivers.
  // 环境要求
  All examples compile and run on Windows and Linux.
1.4 Conventions
  This book uses a few conventions:
    Scalars and points are lowercase and italicized (e.g., s and p),
    vectors are bold (e.g., v),
    normalized vectors also have a hat over them (e.g., nˆ),
    matrices are uppercase and bold (e.g., M),
    Unless otherwise noted:
      units in Cartesian coordinates are in meters (m).
      In text, angles, such as longitude and latitude, are in degrees (◦).
      In code examples, angles are in radians because C# and GLSL functions expect radians.
