# 3.RendererDesign
  How can we cleanly manage OpenGL state?</br>
    abstraction—more specifically, abstracting the underlying rendering API such as OpenGL or Di- rect3D using interfaces that make most of the application’s code API- agnostic. We call such interfaces and their implementation a renderer.</br>
  How can we make sure everyone is using OpenGL best practices? or even, How do we go about supporting both OpenGL and Direct3D?</br>
  <font color='red'>
  This chapter describes the design behind the renderer in OpenGlobe.</br>
  &emsp;First, we pragmatically consider **the motivation for a renderer**,</br>
  &emsp;then we look at the **major components** of our renderer: state management, shaders, vertex data, textures, and framebuffers.</br>
  &emsp;Finally, we **look at a simple example** that renders a triangle using our renderer.</br>
  </font>
  In this chapter, we are focused on the organization of the public interfaces and the design trade-offs that went into them;</br>
  we are not concerned with minute implementation details.</br>
  </br>
  <font color='green'>
  Throughout this chapter, when we refer to GL, we mean OpenGL 3.3 core profile specifically. </br>
  Likewise, when we refer to D3D, we mean Direct3D 11 specifically.</br>
  </font>

## 3.1 The Need for a Renderer
Many small projects do scatter API calls throughout their code, but as projects get larger, it is important that they properly abstract the underlying API for many reasons:
  - Ease of development.
  - Portability
  - Flexibility
  - Robustness
  - Performance: At first glance, it may seem that a renderer layer can hurt performance. It does add a lot of virtual methods calls. However, considering the amount of work the driver is likely to do, virtual call overhead is almost never a concern. If it were, virtual calls aren’t even required to implement a renderer unless the engine supports changing rendering APIs at runtime, an unlikely requirement.   A renderer can actually help performance by allowing optimizations to be made in a single location.
  - Additional functionality: A renderer layer is the ideal place to add functionality that isn’t in the underlying API.

Even with all the benefits of a renderer, there is an important pitfall to watch for:
  - A false sense of portability: Although a renderer eases supporting multiple APIs, it does not completely eliminate the pain.  each underlying API suffers to some extent from the abstraction.

<font color='red'> **A renderer’s design should be driven by actual use cases.**</font>

## 3.2 Bird's-Eye View
主要看 Device 和 Content 的那两个设计图
### 3.2.1 Code Organization
Our renderer is implemented in the OpenGlobe.Renderer.dll assembly.
## 3.3 State Management
A major design decision for a renderer is how render state is managed.

### 3.3.1 Global State

The simplest way to expose this through a renderer would be to mirror the openGL design: provide 'Enable' and 'Disable' methods and an enumeration defining states that can be enabled and disabled.
This design still has the fundamental problem of global state:
  At any given point in time, is the depth test enabled or disabled?
  What if a virtual method is called? How did it leave the depth test state?

way 1. : guarantee a set of states before a method is called, and require the called method to restore any states it changed.

  problem: The obvious problem here is that this can lead to state thrashing, where every method sets and restores the same state.For example, if the above method was called 10 times, it would disable and enable the depth test 10 times, when it only needed to do it once.

  this design requires the person implementing the method to know what the incoming state is and remember to restore it.

  |
  |  pretend that the developer is able to remember what the incoming state is.
  |
  V

  We can surround calls to their method with push and pop attribute GL calls.
  With this design, Render is not required to restore any states because the push and pop attribute saved and restored the states. Since it is not known what states Render will change, all attributes are pushed and popped, which is likely to be overkill.

  But, this method is deprecated in OpenGL 3 .

way 2. : restore the state by explicitly /ik'splisitli/ setting the entire state before each call to Render.
  `
    GL.Enable(EnableCap.DepthTest);
    // ... Set other states
    Render();
  `
  problem: this leads to redundant state changes and requires the person implementing Render to know what the incoming state is.
  `
    gl.colorMask(false, false, false, false);
    // Enable depth testing
    gl.enable(gl.DEPTH_TEST);
    gl.clearDepth(1.0);
    // Clear the depth buffers
    gl.clear(gl.DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT);
    // .... Draw call

    gl.colorMask(true, true, true, true);
    // .... Another draw call
  `
  What if a developer comments out the call about 'depth testing'?
  Did they intend that for just the first draw call or every draw call?
  Whoops. How much easier would it be if, instead, the render state were completely defined for each draw call?

### 3.3.2 Defining Render State
 One approach that eliminates global state and enables sorting by state is to group all render states into a single object that is passed to a draw call.
 The draw call then does the actual GL calls to set the states before issuing the GL draw call.

 advantage in this design:
    there is never any question about what the current state is;
    there is no current state. Each draw call has its own render state, which may or may not change from call to call.

 Class RenderState{ ... } // OpenGlobe.Renderer

 When default constructed, RenderState properties match the default GL states, with two exceptions:
  The depth test, DepthTest, is enabled since that is the common case in our engine;
  The facet culling, Render State.FacetCulling.Enabled, is enabled instead of disabled.
### 3.3.3 Syncing GL State with Render State
a RenderState does not need to be allocated before every draw call.
An object can allocate one or more RenderStates at construction time and set their properties when needed.
The same RenderState can also be used with different contexts.

the same render state can be used in the last draw call.
### 3.3.4 Draw State
Although we’ve described Context.Draw as taking a RenderState, it actually takes a higher-level container object called **DrawState**.
### 3.3.5 Clear State
A number of states that affect draw calls also affect clearing the frame-buffer.

ClearState properties. Similar to how DrawState is used for draw calls, a ClearState object is passed to clear calls, which eliminates the need for related global states.

Separate clear methods for the depth and stencil buffers are not provided; clearing them together is more efficient because they are usually stored in the same buffer.
### 3.3.6 Sorting by state
A common optimization is to sort by state.

Doing so avoids wasted CPU driver overhead and helps exploit the parallelism of the GPU (see Section 10.1.2) by minimizing pipeline stalls [52].

The most expensive state changes are those that require large-scale reconfiguration of the pipeline, such as **changing shaders**, **depth test state**, or **blending state**.

The way it work:
  State sorting is not done by our renderer itself but, instead,
  can be implemented on top of it by sorting by DrawState and issuing Context .Draw calls
  in an order that minimizes changing expensive states.
It is also common to sort by texture or combine multiple textures in a single texture, as discussed in Section 9.2.

One approach to rendering a scene with state sorting is to use three passes:
  1. First, hierarchical culling determines a list of visible objects.
  2. 2. Next, the visible objects are sorted by state.
  3. Finally, the visible objects are drawn in sorted order.

